Hi, I'm Paul Marcos,
Application Services Evangelist at Apple.
In-App Purchas is an exciting
technology that lets you offer services,
products and subscriptions for sale
directly within your application.
By taking advantage of In-App Purchas,
you can create your own virtual
storefront in your app and tap
into a whole new revenue stream.
Because you design and
develop the user interface,
you can focus on tailoring the experience
so it's perfectly suited to your
content and the needs of your users.
To get you started,
I'm going to explain how In-App Purchasse
works and highlight a number of
best practice tips to help you
avoid some of the common pitfalls
you might encounter when adding
In-App Purchasse to your application.
I'd like to start off by providing
some context about how applications
are making money in the App Store.
In iTunes,
you can see a list of the top-grossing
apps that are currently being sold.
This list changes constantly,
but here we have a typical example
of the top 25 grossing apps.
Looking at this list,
we can see something very interesting.
If we focus in on the top five apps,
we see that they're
actually free applications.
And if we look at the entire top 25,
17 of them are free.
It's pretty common to see anywhere
between 12 to 20 of the top 25
apps being offered for free.
So how can these apps wind up as the
top-grossing apps in the App Store?
Well, they do so by generating
revenue using In-App Purchas,
which clearly shows just
how well this model works.
So what I want for you to get out of
this presentation is an understanding
of how you can include In-App Purchase
in your application to generate sales.
To do this, we'll hit three main topics.
First, we'll look at a few examples
of how applications are
integrating In-App Purchasse,
and I'll highlight some key elements
to a successful integration.
Second, we'll spend the bulk of our time
looking at the details of how you
actually integrate In-App Purchasse.
And lastly, we'll look at our newest
type of In-App Purchasse,
auto-renewable subscriptions.
Let's get started with a few examples.
First up is Smoothies by
Callaway Digital Arts.
Smoothies is a beautiful app
that provides different recipes
for delicious smoothies.
As you can see, it's a really vibrant app
using rich colors and a
simple UI to engage the users.
Smoothies provides a base set of
recipes and then users can add
new recipes to their libraries.
Take a look at how they've
implemented their In-App Purchas
in a simple and intuitive way.
You can find recipes by
taking into account what
ingredients you have on hand.
They've presented this unique way of
indicating what ingredients you have.
For example, first I can specify that
I want a citrus smoothie.
Now I can define the type of
smoothie I want in more detail.
So let's select tofu.
I'm not sure I've ever seen
a tofu citrus smoothie,
but I'm willing to try one.
As you can see,
the app presents me with two recipes
I have available in my library and an
additional recipe pack I can purchase.
What's great about this
implementation is that the store
is essentially embedded in the UI.
See something you don't have?
Buy it!
All without having to go to a
dedicated store area in the app.
It's a very seamless experience,
which is what I really
like about this example.
Now let's take a look at the
AmpliTube Fender app by IK Multimedia.
Fender is a well-known
manufacturer of guitars,
amplifiers and effects pedals.
What they've done with this app is
to provide an innovative new medium
for musicians to plug in their
instruments to an iPad and process
various effects through the app.
With In-App Purchas,
they've allowed musicians
to add on various effects,
such as a phaser, overdrive pedal,
echo and blender pedal.
By offering this at an affordable price,
In-App Purchas is a great way for
Fender to introduce these products
in a digital manner so musicians can
then purchase the physical hardware.
Now let's take a look at
Real Racing 2 HD by FireMint.
FireMint is always at the forefront
of adopting new iOS technology.
For example, in Real Racing 2 HD,
they're taking advantage of new features
in iOS such as AirPlay mirroring.
They've also implemented
In-App Purchas as a way to provide
virtual currency within the app.
You start the game driving a Volvo,
and as you progress through the game,
you can win prize money.
You can use your prize money
to buy new cars and upgrades,
like this gorgeous Lotus.
Now, I'm not a very good racer,
and thankfully I've got an alternative.
Using In-App Purchasse,
you can upgrade your car
with virtual currency.
For an $8 In-App Purchasse,
I can now buy that Lotus.
So this is an example of using
In-App Purchasse as a way to
accelerate the advancement within
a game by using virtual currency,
which can help keep your users
engaged and let them get the
most out of your application.
For our last example,
let's take a look at the
latest type of In-App Purchase,
Auto-Renewable Subscriptions,
which were made available in iOS 5.
Auto-Renewable Subscriptions are the
definitive way to offer traditional
subscription support to your customers,
allowing users to subscribe
and be billed automatically,
while having new content pushed
directly to their devices,
without any need for manual
intervention or downloads.
Let's take a look at how Esquire
is offering their subscription
in a totally revamped,
digitally interactive
version of their app.
As you can see,
they've totally reinvented their
publication to take advantage of all
the interactivity the iPad offers.
Subscribers get the great
content they're accustomed to,
but now they have the ability to receive
their monthly issues automatically,
just like they do for
their paper versions.
In addition to subscriptions,
users can purchase individual
issues directly in the application.
But they've gone a step further
and offer older issues for free
to get users acquainted with
this exciting new digital format.
The examples we've seen are just
a few of the countless ways you
can use In-App Purchas to enhance
your application and tap into this
potentially lucrative feature.
So let's talk about some of the benefits
of In-App Purchasse to both you as
the developer and to your customers.
As a developer, you get these benefits
right out of the box.
First,
you don't have to worry about collecting
any of the payments from the users.
Just like selling your
application in the App Store,
Apple handles all the payment details.
Next, you can broaden the reach of
your customer base by offering
your products with localized
pricing and product details.
Lastly,
all the sales reporting comes to you via
the familiar iTunes Connect interface,
just like the sales reporting
for your application itself.
Using In-App Purchasse also presents
great benefits for your customers,
making them more inclined to
make purchases within the app.
First, the purchase experience
is immediately familiar.
It's the same as buying music, movies,
books or apps.
Second, the user doesn't have to
re-enter any payment information.
No need to dig up their credit card
or fill in unfamiliar web forms.
In fact, the user is not taken
out of the app at all.
Finally, the receipts for purchases
come from a known,
trusted place.
It's all the same invoicing from
the App Store that users are already
familiar with and comfortable with.
So lots of options on how to integrate
In-App Purchasse into your application,
tailored to your application,
and plenty of benefits
for you and your users.
Let's move on to look at the
implementation steps for adding
In-App Purchasse to your app.
As we go through these steps,
you'll see this energy-efficient
light bulb pop-up.
It will highlight key tips and
techniques that will help you
avoid some of the common pitfalls
developers sometimes encounter
when implementing In-App Purchas.
So if you pay attention to these tips,
you'll find your implementation
experience much simpler,
smoother and more energy-efficient.
In-App Purchas relies on the
Store Kit Framework available in iOS,
and as of last summer, OS X Lion.
While I'm going to be focusing
on the iOS side of things,
much of what I'll be covering
with the Store Kit implementation
can be directly transferred to
your OS X Lion app development.
You'll find the Store Kit Framework
is exactly the same on both platforms.
All the tips and tricks you learn
here can be used when you want
to offer In-App Purchas in your
Lion apps on the Mac App Store.
As you consider adding
In-App Purchasse to your application,
it's important to plan ahead.
I want to spend a few minutes
talking about a couple of the
most common questions I get
related to In-App Purchasse.
First, what products are you allowed
to sell using In-App Purchasse?
And second, when configuring your
items in iTunes Connect,
what is the correct purchase
type that you should use?
Let's talk about the types
of things you can sell.
In-App Purchasse should be used to sell
digital content or services that are
used directly within your application.
This might be content that the user
gets access to locally on their
device or services that you might
be providing over the internet.
Regardless,
the expectation is that the user
will make use of those content or
services by way of your application.
Let's look at a couple concrete
examples of what you can and
cannot sell using In-App Purchas.
Here's a fitness app which sells
digital versions of workouts.
This is a great use of In-App Purchas.
However,
if you wanted to sell a membership
for a gym down the street,
that would not be allowed
with In-App Purchas because
it's not a digital good.
Similarly, digital books can be
sold within your apps,
but physical copies of books cannot.
Physical or real-world goods
cannot be sold with In-App Purchas.
Once you've determined
what you'll be selling,
the next step is to determine
what purchase type it fits into,
so let's take a look at those.
There are five different types
of purchases you can offer.
Consumable and non-consumable
are the two basic types.
And then there are three
types of subscriptions,
including non-renewable,
auto-renewable and free subscriptions.
Let's go through each
of these in more detail.
The first type of
In-App Purchas are consumables.
Consumables are what
I call single-use items.
That is,
each time the user wants to use the item,
they have to pay for it.
After they've used the item,
it's consumed.
And if they want to use it again,
they have to purchase it again.
Some examples of this would
be items used during gameplay,
like pet food or the virtual
currency we saw in Real Racing that
lets you advance through a game.
Consumable items are available
for both iOS and Lion.
Serving as the opposite to
consumables are non-consumables.
These are considered durable goods.
Once they're purchased,
the user gets to keep them and
has ongoing access to them.
When a user purchases
a non-consumable item,
it must be made available on
all the devices the user has.
So if they make a purchase on an iPhone,
they'll be able to make use of that
same item on their iPad as well.
We've seen a number of examples
of this type including the
Recipe Pack from Smoothies,
a new Effect Pedal in Amplitube,
or individual issues of Esquire Magazine.
But it can also include things
like giving access to additional
features in an app like the
ability to save documents.
Non-consumable items are
available on iOS and Lion as well.
Moving on to the subscription types,
auto-renewable subscriptions are
the latest type of In-App Purchas.
With auto-renewable subscriptions,
you can enable true subscription
support within your app,
allowing users to subscribe to your
content once and be automatically billed
each time a subscription term is up.
Users can easily opt out on their
next renewal at any time using
the Manage Subscription Interface
in iTunes or the App Store.
Auto-renewable subscriptions are
primarily used for providing dynamic
or episodic content to your user.
That is,
content that is updated on a frequent
and regular basis so that the user
is getting something new as they
continue paying for the subscription.
There are a variety of duration
options ranging from 7 days up to a
year with several choices in between.
As with non-consumables,
when a user subscribes to something,
that content must be made available
to all the devices they are using.
All Newsstand apps are required to use
auto-renewable type for subscriptions,
but auto-renewables are not
limited to Newsstand apps only.
Auto-renewables can be offered
in any type of application.
Finally, auto-renewable subscriptions
are only available on iOS 5.
Free subscriptions are also a
new type of In-App purchase.
The implementation of free
subscriptions is virtually identical
to auto-renewables with the exception
that there's no expiration date.
Instead of expiring,
users simply turn off the subscription
like they would opt out of an
auto-renewable subscription.
Just like auto-renewables,
the content is available to
the user on all their devices.
Free subscriptions are only
available in iOS 5 and can only be
offered by Newsstand applications.
The last subscription option
is the Non-Renewable Type.
Non-Renewables can be used for a
wide variety of purchases such as
access to static content or online
services where the access is only
provided for a limited amount of time.
As the name implies,
when the subscription period is over,
the subscription simply ends.
In order to continue access,
the user would have to make another
purchase of the subscription.
Some examples might be providing
voice navigation service for
a few months while a user is
traveling in an unfamiliar country,
or allowing the user to scan
business cards for a year.
Non-renewable subscriptions
are an older purchase type,
and as such,
they don't have all the bells
and whistles that the other
subscription types offer.
In order to use them,
you have to explicitly keep track of
purchases that the user has made and
give the user a way to transfer those
subscriptions to all of their devices.
You also have to manually track the
expiration date of the subscription.
Lastly, if you want to prompt the
user in order to let them
purchase another block of time,
you have to implement that yourself.
Non-renewable subscriptions have
been available on iOS since 3.0
and are still appropriate for use
with a wide variety of offerings.
Let's dive into the details about how
you actually implement In-App Purchas.
We're going to cover four key topics.
Our first stop will be to set
things up in iTunes Connect.
Next, we'll move to implementing your
code using the Store Kit framework.
After writing your code,
you'll need to test things
in the Sandbox environment.
And once you've gotten
everything up and running great,
you'll submit your app
and products for review.
Let's start with how you set
things up in iTunes Connect.
The first thing you want to do
is verify that you have a paid
applications contract in effect.
You'll need this if you're
selling items via In-App Purchas,
even if your application itself is free.
And here we have our
first energy saving tip.
This one is simply to double
check that you have a paid
applications contract in effect.
It's easy to forget to do this and later
have issues with testing in the sandbox
or submitting your In-App Purchas items.
Next, you'll start by adding your
In-App Purchas products by
specifying the metadata for
each product you want to sell.
Begin by going into the
Manage In-App Purchases
module of your application.
In this module,
you can add a new product.
When you do,
you'll have to choose the purchase type
from the list that we looked at before.
We'll first focus on how to add
consumable or non-consumable items.
We'll look at adding
subscriptions a little bit later.
The first thing you'll provide
is a reference name and product
identifier for your item.
These will show up in iTunes Connect and
on your Sales and Trends reports.
The product ID is what your
application will use to indicate which
product the user wants to purchase.
It's important to remember that product
identifiers must be unique across
both applications and platforms.
If you have multiple
applications on OS X or iOS,
it's a good idea to prefix your product
IDs with the bundle ID of your app.
Next, you can provide localized display
names and descriptions for your items.
Your application can access this
information via Store Kit in order to
display product information to the user.
If you haven't localized
your application or provided
localized product information,
it's well worth your time to do so.
It can significantly broaden
the reach for your products,
translating into more sales.
Moving on to the next section,
you'll select pricing and
availability for your item.
This is a similar experience to setting
the price for your main application,
where you select from
a range of price tiers.
Lastly, you'll submit a screenshot for
review with your In-App Purchas item.
This screenshot is not seen
by customers or displayed
anywhere within the app store.
It is used solely by the app review
team to get a general understanding
of what you are trying to sell.
Now you're all set with regard to
iTunes Connect and you've specified
the products you want to sell.
Time to roll up your sleeves
and let's write some code.
This diagram shows the start
to finish steps necessary for
implementing In-App Purchases.
As you can see,
there are a number of steps required,
and it's pretty easy to overlook
some things along the way,
so we'll go through the
whole process together.
Well, it looks like there's a lot
of work for you to do here.
It's actually nowhere near that bad.
You'll find that most of the work is
provided by the Store Kit Framework.
As with many of our other technologies,
the Frameworks guide the overall
process and you hook into a
few well-defined places in the
flow to complete the picture.
Let's see how this all fits together.
Before offering your user
the option to buy anything,
you'll want to verify that the device
is not restricting In-App Purchases.
You do this by calling CanMakePayments
on the SKPaymentQueue class.
Sometimes parents will enable
this restriction so that their
children cannot purchase items
without them knowing about it.
Keep in mind that the user can enable
or disable this restriction at any time.
It's not a setting
that will change often,
but do pay attention to it in order
to prevent confusion with your
user by letting them try to buy
something that will ultimately fail.
In order to show the
products you have for sale,
you'll need to fetch the details
about the products from the app store.
You do this by gathering up a list
of product IDs you want to present.
This list could be baked into
your application directly,
or for more flexibility,
you could dynamically load
this list from your server.
These product IDs would be the same
ones you entered in iTunes Connect,
so watch out for things like typos
or changes in iTunes Connect that
need to be reflected in your app.
Once you have your product IDs,
you use the SK Products Request class in
Store Kit to fetch the product details.
These requests are asynchronous,
so you provide a delegate
object that will be called back
after you start the request.
After Store Kit fetches
the details from the store,
your delegate will be called back using
ProductsRequestDidReceiveResponse method,
passing an SK Products response object.
The response object contains two arrays,
one in response.products and the other
in response.invalid product identifiers.
The Invalid Product Identifiers array
is the list of product IDs that are
currently not available on the store.
This could be because you don't
have the paid contracts in effect,
you might have a typo in the product ID,
or the product may not
be cleared for sale yet.
The Response.Products array holds
instances of SK product representing
the items that have been approved and
are actually available to be purchased.
These objects hold the localized
product details and pricing information
that can be shown to the user.
So at this point,
you're now far enough along
to let users shop and pick out
the items they want to buy.
And remember,
only products with the "Cleared for
Sale" flag set to "Yes" in iTunes
Connect will be returned here.
Once the user has decided
what they want to purchase,
they'll hit the Buy button.
One of the major benefits
of In-App Purchasse is that
Store Kit will handle all of
the payment processing for you.
All you need to do is use the
SKPaymentQueue class to request payment.
As you add payment requests to the queue,
Store Kit will asynchronously
process those payments.
You'll participate in the process
by providing a Transaction
Observer on the queue.
The Transaction Observer will be
notified as a payment request is updated.
It's important that you register
your Transaction Observer in
application did finish launching,
because payment requests may be
updated in the background while
your application is not running.
In order to get those updates,
you'll need to set up your
Transaction Observer during your
application's launch sequence.
To begin processing a payment,
you create an SK Payment object
using one of the SK Product objects
which we saw earlier.
For those of you familiar with pre-iOS
5 versions of In-App Purchasse,
note that Payment with Product replaces
Payment with Product Identifier.
Once you've done that,
you simply add the payment to
the queue and Store Kit swoops
into action taking it from there.
Store Kit will prompt the user for
confirmation and authentication
with the familiar blue dialogues
like purchasing an app.
Store Kit will call the Payment Queue
Updated Transactions method on your
Transaction Observer when there are
updates to the purchases in the queue.
This is where you would handle the
various states a purchase can be in.
It might have completed successfully or
the user might have canceled the request.
Regardless of what the outcome is,
this is your place to keep
track of what's going on.
Once a payment has completed,
you have access to a receipt
for that transaction.
This receipt is really important
and can be used to validate
the transaction which was made.
It's a cryptographically signed piece
of data and you can use it to get
details about the purchase transaction.
To verify a receipt,
you take a Base64 encoded version
of the receipt and send it to the
App Store by way of a web-based API.
There are two different entry
points depending on whether you're
working in the sandbox environment
or the production environment.
Once you've verified the receipt,
you can deliver the product
to the user purchased.
Receipt validation is imperative
for protecting against piracy.
This is your front-line defense
against things like jailbroken phones.
Let's take a look at the
transaction receipts you'll
receive after a payment is made.
After a successful transaction,
your application can access the
Transaction Receipt property from the
resulting payment transaction object.
It will be signed and will contain
information about the purchase,
like an original transaction ID,
the date the purchase was made,
the product ID,
the quantity the user bought, and so on.
You can then take this
receipt and Base64 encode it,
wrap it in a JSON payload and pass
it to the Web API for validation.
It's best to do this on your server,
although it can also be done
directly from your application.
The verification server will reply with
a JSON response containing a status
code along with the receipt details.
A status code of zero indicates success,
letting you know that
the transaction is valid.
After the payment and
verification is complete,
you can go ahead and unlock
the items from within your app,
or if your content is served remotely,
deliver that content to the application.
From your user's perspective,
the process is now complete.
But as the developer,
you've got a little bit
of final bookkeeping that
you need to take care of.
During this whole process,
the SK Payment Object has been
sitting in the Payment Queue.
Once you've verified the receipt
and unlocked the product,
the transaction is complete
and you need to remove the
Payment Object from the queue.
You do this by calling the
FinishTransaction method.
Depending on the purchase
type you're using,
you might also need to store the
receipt on your server in order
to provide the purchased item
to the user's other devices.
Finally, it's important to note that you
might not be able to perform the
verification of the receipt immediately.
The user might have lost
their network connection,
for example.
So it's best to not call
Finish Transaction until after
you've received the response
from the Verification API.
Let's talk about restoring transactions.
Just like with songs, apps or movies,
a user who purchases a non-consumable
item or a subscription must
be able to restore that item
back to a device they have,
or to a new one.
It's important to make the restoration
process easy and intuitive for users.
Here are a couple examples of
apps that present the restore
UI in a user-friendly location.
Often developers will bury this
feature in the settings of their app,
making it confusing for the
users who want to restore
previously purchased items.
So be sure to make this an easy and
intuitive operation for your users.
If you are offering non-consumable,
auto-renewing or free subscriptions,
you can use the Store Kit Restore
API to give the items back to the user.
When a user clicks on
the Restore Purchases UI,
you would call the Restore Completed
Transactions method in Store Kit.
The user will be prompted for
their Apple ID and password,
and then all their previous transactions
will be replayed to your application.
Your app will see all the
transactions come through as if
the user had just bought them,
but the user won't be charged again.
So those are the steps required
for implementing In-App Purchas.
Like I said, it may seem like a lot,
but it's really pretty
straightforward and Store Kit does
most of the work for you.
Now that you have things in
iTunes Connect set up and
you've written your code,
it's time to turn your eye towards
testing things in the Sandbox.
In order to test
something in the Sandbox,
the items should be in the Ready to
Submit state in iTunes Connect.
So double-check that your items
are in this state before trying
to access them in the Sandbox.
You do not have to submit your
items for review in order to test
them in the Sandbox environment.
The Sandbox environment is completely
separate from the Production environment
and you cannot mix the two.
In order to test
purchases in the Sandbox,
you'll need to create a test user account
for each country you want to test in.
Because the environments are separate,
you cannot use an existing iTunes
Store account for your test user.
You will have to create a new
Apple ID for each test user,
and you should be careful to
not use these test accounts
in the production environment.
If you do, then you won't be able to use
them in the sandbox anymore.
Also note that email verification
is required for each test
user you are setting up.
The second thing to remember for testing
your In-App Purchases is to sign out
of the store settings on your device.
Make sure that no user is logged in.
You should not log in with your
test user account in the store
settings or in the app store.
You'll be able to enter the test
user account username directly in the
authentication dialogs when you test
your purchases from your application.
You should also note that the
same test user accounts can
work across both iOS and Lion.
You do not need to create a separate
In-App Purchase test user for testing
your items across the two platforms.
However, a test user can only be
assigned to a single country,
so you will need to create a different
test user for each country where
your application is being sold.
Lastly, remember that when you are
testing your purchases,
you should verify your receipts
against the Sandbox Web Validation API,
not the production one.
Once you've tested everything
in the Sandbox environment and
things are working for you,
you're ready to submit your app and
In-App Purchas items for app review.
There are a couple things I want
to point out about the app review
process which can cause some confusion.
To complete your setup,
you'll hit the Submit for
Review button in iTunes Connect.
This will send your In-App Purchas items
to the app review team for approval.
When you first add In-App Purchasse
support to your application,
you'll need to submit a new app
binary at the same time you submit
your In-App Purchasse items.
Subsequent editions of In-App Purchasse
items can be submitted without a binary.
Normally, while you're doing your
development and testing,
your development-signed
application is using the sandbox
environment for In-App Purchases.
That's pretty straightforward,
and your app will use the Sandbox
Receipt Verification APIs.
After AppReview has approved your
application and users download it,
the production-signed version of
your application will be talking
to the production environment.
That's also pretty straightforward.
In this situation,
your app will be using the
production receipt verification APIs.
The confusion comes in during
the AppReview process itself,
where the AppReview team is
using a production-signed
version of your application,
but testing them against
the sandbox environment.
since your in-app purchase
items haven't yet been approved.
This means that your application
needs to be prepared to handle sandbox
receipts in a production application.
It's not uncommon for developers
to take a sandbox receipt and
inadvertently send it to the
Production Receipt Verification APIs.
If you do this,
you'll get back a 21007 status
code indicating an error.
There are a couple ways you
can handle this situation.
The simplest is to always use the
production verification APIs and
then watch for that status code
that indicates you've sent a sandbox
receipt to the production server.
If you get this status code back,
then you can just simply turn
around and re-issue the verification
request to the sandbox URL instead.
Since this situation really
only happens during app review,
it's pretty uncommon,
but it is worth paying attention
to since it can cause problems
during the app review process.
Now that we've covered the details of
adding In-App Purchasse of consumable and
non-consumable items to your application,
let's move on to the newest
type of In-App Purchasse:
Auto-Renewable Subscriptions.
First, let's take a look at the
differences between subscriptions
and the other purchase types.
With subscriptions,
the developer is responsible
for validating receipts in order
to verify the subscriptions.
You'll need to do this in order to
determine whether a subscription is
currently active or to determine the date
ranges that the subscription covered.
Second, when doing receipt verification,
an additional layer of security is used
in the form of a shared secret that
you pass along in the JSON request.
Third, auto-renewable subscriptions
allow you to offer a marketing
opt-in incentive to your users.
When users opt-in, they agree to provide
you with their name,
email address and zip code,
and in return,
you agree to give them a small free
extension on their initial subscription.
The publisher is responsible
for determining and displaying
this duration bonus,
and it can be up to three months.
Since you may have the option
to collect user data via the
marketing opt-in incentive,
a privacy URL for your company
is required and is displayed
on customers' invoices.
We want to be sure that our users
understand how their personal
information is being used.
There are also a couple additional things
you'll need to do in iTunes Connect,
so let's take a look at those now.
First, you'll provide a reference
name for your subscription.
This is just a name you
give to your collection of
subscriptions in your application.
Keep in mind that this is
never displayed to a user.
It's only shown in your iTunes
Connect sales reports and in
the iTunes Connect mobile app.
Next, you'll provide the
Display Name for your item.
This is the name that will appear
next to the Buy button in your
app and it can be localized.
Users will also see this name in the
Manage Subscription pages in iTunes
and in their confirmation emails.
Now you can determine your subscription
durations as well as provide the
product identifier for each duration.
Remember that the product
identifier is what you pass to the
App Store via Store Kit in order to
determine which subscriptions your
application can offer the user.
Incentive duration is the field
you populate if you plan on
offering that marketing opt-in
incentive for your subscription.
For your product IDs,
it's a good practice to encode the
durations into your identifiers
in order to easily know which
duration the user chose.
For example,
you might just append an indicator to
the end of your product IDs to show
what duration the purchase was for.
Now you can add the URL to
your privacy policy.
This will appear on customer
invoices and in the App Store itself.
One note about displaying
privacy policies.
If you plan to include them
within your application,
make sure they are embedded directly
within the app and not presented as a
hyperlink that would take the user out
of your application and over to Safari.
If you link outside of your app,
the app review team will request
that you change this behavior.
Within iTunes Connect,
you'll now be able to
generate the Shared Secret,
which you'll use when making requests
to the Receipt Validation Service.
This Shared Secret can be used across
all of your auto-renewable subscriptions,
so you only need one.
Let's take a look at how this
all looks to the end user.
In the Manage Subscriptions
section of the App Store,
the user will first be presented with the
apps for which they have subscriptions.
Clicking on an app will reveal
the display name that you entered
in iTunes Connect for the item.
And clicking on each display
name will reveal the offer
names for the subscriptions.
As you can see,
these are tied directly to
the product identifiers.
The user can always choose
a different duration,
which will take effect on the next
auto-renewal of their subscription.
This is also where users can opt out of
the auto-renew functionality altogether.
It's really as simple as
just flipping a switch.
When you look at the invoice a
user receives after subscribing,
you'll see all the familiar fields.
First, there's the display name
of the subscription,
followed by the app name,
then the offer name, and lastly,
the privacy URL you provided.
One important note if you choose to
offer auto-renewable subscriptions:
don't forget to update your base
application's metadata with information
about your auto-renewing subscriptions.
Make sure all the information in
the Paid Applications Contract,
Section 3.8b,
is included in the application
description on the store.
This includes items such
as your privacy policy,
durations, and auto-renewing policies.
When we previously
discussed implementation,
we covered all of these steps,
and for auto-renewable subscriptions,
almost all of these are exactly the same.
The only change you'll have to make
is how you handle receipt validation.
As we saw earlier,
the App Store will pass back
a transaction receipt to
your app after a purchase.
You'll get back a receipt for the
original purchase of the subscription,
and then each time the
subscription automatically renews,
a new transaction will be generated,
and each of these transactions has
its own receipt to go along with it.
When considered all together,
these receipts paint the picture of the
timeline of your user's subscription.
This is the information you would
use to determine what specific dates
a user's subscription was valid for.
The receipts you get for auto-renewable
subscriptions will differ slightly.
Let's take a look at the fields
you'll find in this type of receipt.
The first is that you will
find the purchase date.
For non-consumables,
this corresponds to either the date
of the original download or the date
an item was last restored to a device.
For auto-renewables though,
this will always be the date of
the original buy or of a renewal.
You'll also get an
original transaction ID.
This will be constant across all receipts
a user has for a particular subscription.
So it's a good candidate for
something like a customer ID.
You'll get an expiration date and lastly,
we'll always include the latest receipt
information with every receipt for handy
reference to the most recent transaction.
If a subscription has expired,
you'll get the latest
expired receipt instead.
When verifying an auto-renewable
subscription receipt,
the JSON response from the
App Store will contain a status,
the receipt you passed,
as well as the latest receipt info.
Now a status code of 0 will indicate
that a subscription is currently valid,
but you can also get one of
these other status codes back.
I'd like to focus on
status 21006 and 21007.
As I mentioned before,
the status code of 21007 indicates
that a sandbox receipt was
sent to the production server.
You might see this status
code during app review.
21006 is the status code that indicates
a subscription is no longer active.
Most commonly,
this would tell you your user
turned off auto-renewal and
let the subscription expire.
But there's an edge condition where
this might happen when the subscription
hasn't reached the expiration date.
Users cannot normally cancel
subscriptions partway through a duration.
They can only turn off the auto-renewal
at the end of the current duration.
In some rare cases,
iTunes customer support will
cancel a subscription midstream
and in those cases you'll get the
21006 status code indicating the
subscription has been cancelled.
Now let's talk about
restoring subscriptions.
Just like physical magazines don't
vanish when a subscription expires,
we don't think digital
ones should either.
This is a key takeaway with regard to
restoring auto-renewable subscriptions.
When a user chooses to restore
an auto-renewable subscription,
you'll need to make sure you
give the user access to all
the issues they're entitled to.
You can do this with the Restore
Previous Transactions API.
You'll get back a receipt for
the original subscription as
well as each renewal period.
You can then pass each of these
receipts for verification,
and the purchase and expiration
dates will let you know what
content a user qualifies for.
If you're selling
content or publications,
this is very valuable to you.
However,
if you're selling access to a service,
such as a streaming,
audio or video service,
you may not care about the date ranges.
You really only care if the
subscription is currently active.
When we talk about
renewing subscriptions,
the beauty is that they
will automatically renew,
so you don't have to worry about
posting dialogues or notifications
about expiring accounts.
However,
there are circumstances where a user
may click on the Buy button when they
already have an active subscription.
In this case, the user will receive a
dialogue explaining that the
subscription is active and
they will not be charged again.
They'll be given a link to
the Manage Subscription page,
which will allow them to
edit their subscription if
that's what they wanted to do.
Since this might be confusing to a user,
you might want to avoid
this situation altogether.
If your app has already
validated a user's subscription,
you shouldn't even present the
option to buy the subscription again.
However,
if the user's subscription has expired,
then you should allow them to
buy the subscription again.
This will let the user
renew right within the app.
While the experience is
similar to the original buy,
one difference is that they
will not be presented with the
marketing opt-in incentive again.
Two points here are that renewals
typically occur a few hours before
expiration and that if the price
of your subscription goes up,
auto-renew will be disabled and the
user will be notified via email.
Just like with other types
of In-App Purchasese,
you'll follow the same steps to
test in the Sandbox environment.
One key point to note is that when you
are testing auto-renewables in a sandbox,
there is a limit of six
renewals per purchase,
and then the subscription will expire.
This allows you to test a wide
variety of scenarios and make
sure that your app handles receipt
verification correctly for each of them.
You should obviously test how
your app responds to the base
case of the subscription expiring.
Then you should move on to test the
more complex cases like non-contiguous
renewal histories as well as
changing durations between renewals.
You want to make sure your application
handles the wide variety of renewals
and time periods that can happen.
Be sure to verify you handle these
situations correctly after doing a
restore to a different device as well.
Also, the subscription durations are
accelerated in the sandbox environment,
so you don't have to wait a
whole year just to make sure
your app is working right.
The values are displayed in this table.
Be sure to keep these shortened
durations in mind while you're testing.
You could easily get up and leave your
computer to get a cup of coffee and
find that your subscription has already
renewed six times and now it's expired.
It's pretty common to do development
using the longer durations like six
months and a year since that gives
you more time to get work done.
Finally,
the Managed Subscription Interface
is not available in the Sandbox.
Well, that covers all the details about
auto-renewable subscriptions that
I wanted to talk about and brings
us to an end of this presentation.
Now you have all the details you
need to integrate In-App Purchasse
into your application.
By paying attention to
the highlighted tips,
you can avoid some of the
common issues and have a smooth
implementation experience.
You'll find that it won't take long
before you're offering compelling
and exciting products with a familiar
and convenient user experience.
And I'm sure you'll enjoy the
additional revenue potential.